Database Proposal
Olha Kholod

Rationale for the database
I am planning to create a database for querying information about gene isoforms from transcriptome assemblies for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients, as well as healthy donors. 
The dataset consists of 16 transcriptome assemblies in GTF file format.
This database allows to:
search for gene isoforms in particular sample and/or condition according to gene or transcript identifiers (IDs)
extract information about gene isoforms for pairwise comparisons between in samples and/or investigated groups (leukemia vs healthy).  

Example of how database will be used
Users can search for genes and/or transcripts to estimate the isoform-level abundance in Fragments Per Kilobase of exon model per Million mapped fragments (FPKM). 
They can compare how much FPKM value for particular isoform is differ between patients, as well as between patients and healthy donors. 
The 95% confidence interval of the isoform’s abundance (with lower and upper bounds) are also can be queried to identify the most statistically stringent results. 
The depth of read coverage across the whole transcript can be queried to estimate the average number of times that a particular nucleotide is represented in a collection of random raw sequences.

Questions that can be answered using database
What isoforms are the most abundant for B-ALL patient profiles (the highest FPKM values)? How they are differ from healthy donor profiles? 
Does particular gene isoform has consistent FPKM values for particular condition? 
What proportion of isoforms is statistically significant in each dataset?

List the types of data to be stored in your database
Each file (transcripts.gtf) contains 7 columns in standard GTF format, and the last column contains attributes. There one GTF record per row, and each record represents either a transcript or an exon within a transcript. The columns are defined as following: seqname, source, feature, start, end, score, strand and frame. Each GTF record is decorated with the following attributes: gene_id, transcript_id, FPKM, frac, conf_lo, conf_hi, cov, full_read_support.  
